Let's look at another example of regular expressions.
In our very first Google Analytics course,
we reviewed goal configuration.
Let's consider a goal configuration that would require regular expressions.
When I was working as an analyst and optimizer in the insurance industry,
one of our conversion processes lead to
two different versions of essentially the same conversion page,
whether the customer opted for policy fulfillment by
postal mail or policy fulfillment by email.
For conversion purposes, both were equal.
So, we needed the one goal to accommodate both versions of the "Thank you" page URL.
But, there were other thank you pages that we wanted to exclude from this conversion.
If we go back to the org test account from the previous course,
we can test out goal configuration using regular expressions.
We're in the text view where we always want to configure goals first.
New goal. Let's call this goal policy Purchased.
Type, destination.
Notice, the three match types available: equals to,
begins with and regular expression.
We couldn't use equal to in this case and we couldn't use begins with either.
Again, because we want to match thank-you-mail and thank-you-email,
not thank-you-claim or any other page that began with "Thank you."
So, to construct our regular expression.
We can start with,
thank-you-email, and to make sure that male also matched,
we can go back to our chart and see that we can use the question mark as a quantifier,
meaning, zero or one occurrences of the proceeding character.
Question mark match with or without the e,
and to clean things up a little bit further,
we're going to apply a beginning of string anchor and an end of string anchor.
Caret for beginning of string,
dollar sign for end of string.
To test out this regular expression,
we're going to go to rejectsone-to-one.com.
Copy our rejects, pasted it into the regular expression field.
Rejects one-to-one likes us to escape the forward slash as well.
So, we'll go ahead and do that.
That won't change our regular expression in GA. Let's test out the text strings.
Thank-you-mail, one match.
Thank-you-email match.
But thank-you-claims, no match and no other string would match this regular expression.
You can use regular expressions for many purposes in GA.
In table filters, in view filters, in goad definitions,
in custom segments which we'll talk about coming up and in custom alerts,
which we'll also talk about in an upcoming section.
You can certainly use regular expressions in many cases in
Google Tag Manager and in many other tools.
You probably won't need regular expressions every day,
but when you need them there's no replacement.